README.md, before:

# AI-Driven Real Estate Information Retrieval

## Project Overview

This project is an application designed to accept a home address as input and leverage artificial intelligence to provide detailed real estate information. The program retrieves the following information:

- **Overview of the Property**: A general summary of the property's market status.
- **Detailed Property Information**: Specifics such as size, number of rooms, and estimated value.
- **List of Nearby Schools**: Relevant details including names, distances, and ratings of nearby educational institutions.


## Deployment

The application is deployed on Render:
- **Frontend**: [Live Demo](https://ai-driven-real-estate-info-retrieval-k51s.onrender.com/)
- **Backend**: Deployed as a separate service on Render.


## Getting Started

### Prerequisites
To set up and run the project locally, ensure you have the following:
- **Node.js** (v18.18.0 or higher)
- **npm** or **yarn**
- **Google Maps API key**
- **OpenAI API key**
- **Pinecone API key**

### How to Run

### Environment Setup
> **Note**: All `.env` files containing API keys can be obtained by contacting the repository author.

#### Frontend Configuration
Create a `.env` file in the `real-estate-frontend` directory:
```env
# real-estate-frontend/.env.local
NEXT_PUBLIC_API_URL=http://localhost:3001/api
NEXT_PUBLIC_GOOGLE_MAPS_API_KEY=your_google_maps_api_key
```

#### Backend Configuration
Create a `.env` file in the `real-estate-backend` directory:
```env
# real-estate-backend/.env
GOOGLE_MAPS_API_KEY=your_google_maps_api_key
OPENAI_API_KEY=your_openai_api_key
PINECONE_API_KEY=your_pinecone_api_key
PINECONE_ENVIRONMENT=us-east1-aws
PINECONE_INDEX_NAME=real-estate-index-1536
```

> **Important Security Note**: 
> - Never commit your actual API keys to version control
> - Keep your `.env` files private
> - Contact repository maintainers for actual API keys if needed

#### Frontend
1. Navigate to the `real-estate-frontend` directory:
   ```bash
   cd real-estate-frontend
   ```

2. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. Start the development server:
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

   The frontend will be available at `http://localhost:3000`.

4. Run Jest tests for the frontend:
   ```bash
   npm run test
   ```

#### Backend
1. Navigate to the `real-estate-backend` directory:
   ```bash
   cd real-estate-backend
   ```

2. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. Start the development server:
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

   The backend will be available at `http://localhost:3001`.

## Technology Stack

### Frontend
- **Next.js** 15.1.3 with React 19
- **Material-UI** v6 for UI components
- **TypeScript** for type safety
- **Google Maps Places API** for address autocomplete
- **Axios** for API requests
- **Lodash** for utility functions

### Backend
- **Node.js** with Express
- **OpenAI API** (GPT-3.5 Turbo & `text-embedding-ada-002`)
- **Pinecone Vector Database**
- **Google Maps Services** for geocoding
- **CORS** for cross-origin resource sharing

### RAG Implementation
- **Retriever (Pinecone Vector Database)**: Stores semantic embeddings of real estate and school data, enabling fast and accurate similarity searches.
- **Generator (OpenAI GPT)**: Processes retrieved data to generate user-friendly and informative responses.
- **Integration**: Combines Google Maps API for geocoding with vector-based retrieval to ensure precise and relevant outputs.


### Data Processing
- **Python** for data preprocessing
- **Pandas** for dataset manipulation
- **OpenAI's embedding models** for vector generation
- Coordinate transformation utilities

## Data Infrastructure

### Vector Database Setup
The project uses **Pinecone** as its vector database, storing embeddings for:
- Property listings with detailed metadata
- Public and private school information
- Geographic coordinates for spatial queries

### Data Processing Pipeline
1. **Data Cleaning and Standardization**:
   - Standardize ZIP code formats.
   - Generate descriptive fields necessary for embedding generation.
2. **Embedding Generation**:
   - Use OpenAI's `text-embedding-ada-002` model to create semantic embeddings from property descriptions.
3. **Batch Upload to Pinecone**:
   - Upload embeddings along with metadata in batches.
4. **Query Optimization**:
   - Conduct sample queries to ensure accuracy and reliability of vector data.

## API Endpoints

### Backend Routes
- **`POST /api/property-details`**: Retrieves property and school information based on the input address.
- **`GET /api/health`**: Health check endpoint.

## Testing

- **Frontend Testing**:
   - Run Jest tests:
    ```bash
    cd real-estate-frontend
    npm run test
    ```
   - Key test cases:
      - Validate user input for various edge cases (e.g., incomplete or incorrect addresses).


## Assumptions and Limitations

- **Sampled Dataset**: The original dataset is too large to process; sampling methods are used for demonstration purposes.
- **US Addresses Only**: Assume the service only supports addresses within the United States.
- **API Reliability**: Relies on the consistent performance of external APIs (Google Maps, OpenAI) for geocoding and AI functionalities.
- **Rate Limits**: External APIs are subject to rate limits.

## Project Architecture

```plaintext
[ React + Next.js ] (Material-UI)
         |
         | HTTP / REST
         |
+---------------------+
|    Node.js (Express)|
|  - API Gateway      |
|  - Logging & Monitoring |
+----------+----------+
           |
+----------+----------+
|  AI Knowledge Hub   |
|        (GPT)        |
+----------+----------+
           |
+---------------------------+
|    Data Infrastructure    |
|                           |
|  +---------------------+  |
|  |    Vector Store     |  |
|  |      (Pinecone)     |  |
|  +---------------------+  |
+---------------------------+
```

## Component Breakdown

### Frontend (React + Next.js)
- Provides a user-friendly interface for inputting addresses and displaying retrieved information.

### Backend (Node.js + Express)
- Handles API requests, interacts with external services (Google Maps, Pinecone, OpenAI), and manages data processing.

### AI Knowledge Hub (GPT)
- Processes the retrieved data to generate coherent and informative responses.

### Data Infrastructure (Pinecone)
- Stores and manages vector embeddings for efficient similarity searches and data retrieval.

## Acknowledgments
- **USA Real Estate Dataset** from Kaggle
- **US Schools Dataset** from Kaggle
- **OpenAI** for AI capabilities
- **Google Maps** for geocoding services

## Repository
GitHub: [AI-Driven Real Estate Info Retrieval](https://github.com/runzeeee/AI-driven-Real-Estate-Info-Realty)

Commit message:

Add link to data processing file in README.md

README.md, after:

# AI-Driven Real Estate Information Retrieval

## Project Overview

This project is an application designed to accept a home address as input and leverage artificial intelligence to provide detailed real estate information. The program retrieves the following information:

- **Overview of the Property**: A general summary of the property's market status.
- **Detailed Property Information**: Specifics such as size, number of rooms, and estimated value.
- **List of Nearby Schools**: Relevant details including names, distances, and ratings of nearby educational institutions.


## Deployment

The application is deployed on Render:
- **Frontend**: [Live Demo](https://ai-driven-real-estate-info-retrieval-k51s.onrender.com/)
- **Backend**: Deployed as a separate service on Render.


## Getting Started

### Prerequisites
To set up and run the project locally, ensure you have the following:
- **Node.js** (v18.18.0 or higher)
- **npm** or **yarn**
- **Google Maps API key**
- **OpenAI API key**
- **Pinecone API key**

### How to Run

### Environment Setup
> **Note**: All `.env` files containing API keys can be obtained by contacting the repository author.

#### Frontend Configuration
Create a `.env` file in the `real-estate-frontend` directory:
```env
# real-estate-frontend/.env.local
NEXT_PUBLIC_API_URL=http://localhost:3001/api
NEXT_PUBLIC_GOOGLE_MAPS_API_KEY=your_google_maps_api_key
```

#### Backend Configuration
Create a `.env` file in the `real-estate-backend` directory:
```env
# real-estate-backend/.env
GOOGLE_MAPS_API_KEY=your_google_maps_api_key
OPENAI_API_KEY=your_openai_api_key
PINECONE_API_KEY=your_pinecone_api_key
PINECONE_ENVIRONMENT=us-east1-aws
PINECONE_INDEX_NAME=real-estate-index-1536
```

> **Important Security Note**: 
> - Never commit your actual API keys to version control
> - Keep your `.env` files private
> - Contact repository maintainers for actual API keys if needed

#### Frontend
1. Navigate to the `real-estate-frontend` directory:
   ```bash
   cd real-estate-frontend
   ```

2. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. Start the development server:
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

   The frontend will be available at `http://localhost:3000`.

4. Run Jest tests for the frontend:
   ```bash
   npm run test
   ```

#### Backend
1. Navigate to the `real-estate-backend` directory:
   ```bash
   cd real-estate-backend
   ```

2. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. Start the development server:
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

   The backend will be available at `http://localhost:3001`.

## Technology Stack

### Frontend
- **Next.js** 15.1.3 with React 19
- **Material-UI** v6 for UI components
- **TypeScript** for type safety
- **Google Maps Places API** for address autocomplete
- **Axios** for API requests
- **Lodash** for utility functions

### Backend
- **Node.js** with Express
- **OpenAI API** (GPT-3.5 Turbo & `text-embedding-ada-002`)
- **Pinecone Vector Database**
- **Google Maps Services** for geocoding
- **CORS** for cross-origin resource sharing

### RAG Implementation
- **Retriever (Pinecone Vector Database)**: Stores semantic embeddings of real estate and school data, enabling fast and accurate similarity searches.
- **Generator (OpenAI GPT)**: Processes retrieved data to generate user-friendly and informative responses.
- **Integration**: Combines Google Maps API for geocoding with vector-based retrieval to ensure precise and relevant outputs.


### Data Processing
- **Python** for data preprocessing
- **Pandas** for dataset manipulation
- **OpenAI's embedding models** for vector generation
- Coordinate transformation utilities

## Data Infrastructure
For detailed steps and code related to the data processing pipeline, refer to the accompanying file: [AI_Real_Estate_Pinecone_Indexing1536.ipynb](https://github.com/runzeeee/AI-driven-Real-Estate-Info-Retrieval/blob/main/AI_Real_Estate_Pinecone_Indexing1536.ipynb).

### Vector Database Setup
The project uses **Pinecone** as its vector database, storing embeddings for:
- Property listings with detailed metadata
- Public and private school information
- Geographic coordinates for spatial queries

### Data Processing Pipeline
1. **Data Cleaning and Standardization**:
   - Standardize ZIP code formats.
   - Generate descriptive fields necessary for embedding generation.
2. **Embedding Generation**:
   - Use OpenAI's `text-embedding-ada-002` model to create semantic embeddings from property descriptions.
3. **Batch Upload to Pinecone**:
   - Upload embeddings along with metadata in batches.
4. **Query Optimization**:
   - Conduct sample queries to ensure accuracy and reliability of vector data.

## API Endpoints

### Backend Routes
- **`POST /api/property-details`**: Retrieves property and school information based on the input address.
- **`GET /api/health`**: Health check endpoint.

## Testing

- **Frontend Testing**:
   - Run Jest tests:
    ```bash
    cd real-estate-frontend
    npm run test
    ```
   - Key test cases:
      - Validate user input for various edge cases (e.g., incomplete or incorrect addresses).


## Assumptions and Limitations

- **Sampled Dataset**: The original dataset is too large to process; sampling methods are used for demonstration purposes.
- **US Addresses Only**: Assume the service only supports addresses within the United States.
- **API Reliability**: Relies on the consistent performance of external APIs (Google Maps, OpenAI) for geocoding and AI functionalities.
- **Rate Limits**: External APIs are subject to rate limits.

## Project Architecture

```plaintext
[ React + Next.js ] (Material-UI)
         |
         | HTTP / REST
         |
+---------------------+
|    Node.js (Express)|
|  - API Gateway      |
|  - Logging & Monitoring |
+----------+----------+
           |
+----------+----------+
|  AI Knowledge Hub   |
|        (GPT)        |
+----------+----------+
           |
+---------------------------+
|    Data Infrastructure    |
|                           |
|  +---------------------+  |
|  |    Vector Store     |  |
|  |      (Pinecone)     |  |
|  +---------------------+  |
+---------------------------+
```

## Component Breakdown

### Frontend (React + Next.js)
- Provides a user-friendly interface for inputting addresses and displaying retrieved information.

### Backend (Node.js + Express)
- Handles API requests, interacts with external services (Google Maps, Pinecone, OpenAI), and manages data processing.

### AI Knowledge Hub (GPT)
- Processes the retrieved data to generate coherent and informative responses.

### Data Infrastructure (Pinecone)
- Stores and manages vector embeddings for efficient similarity searches and data retrieval.

## Acknowledgments
- **USA Real Estate Dataset** from Kaggle
- **US Schools Dataset** from Kaggle
- **OpenAI** for AI capabilities
- **Google Maps** for geocoding services

## Repository
GitHub: [AI-Driven Real Estate Info Retrieval](https://github.com/runzeeee/AI-driven-Real-Estate-Info-Realty)
